Time for some alternative syntaxes.
There's nothing wrong with the way we provided our packages or our data thus far, but I'm always a
fan of showing you alternative ways of doing something.
For example, here in the main Dardanelle, we're having our changed notifier provider where we need
to provide that builder method and distend, actually.
Runs this function, gets a context, returns the data we want to provide, if that data does not depend
on the context as we do here, it's kind of redundant to get that.
Of course, you can then use the underscore to signal that you're not interested in it.
But actually, Geralt is a shortcut or an alternative constructor for a change notifier provider, which
you could use, and that is the dot value constructor instead of a builder.
This simply takes a value argument, a datastore value you want to provide.
And if your value doesn't depend on the context, you can absolutely use this instead of the builder
method.
And of course, it's the same in here in product Scribd where I have to.
Change notifier provider with that builder function, you can use that, but you can also use the value
constructor of change notifier provider and simply provide a value, which in our case here is that
single product.
And if you do that and you do a full refresh your.
Of course, you see, it still works as before, but now it's a bit shorter, so that's option number
one, which makes sense if you're not really using the context.
Now, there actually is an important difference between change, notifier provider, Daudt value and
the approach we had before with the builder function, distort value approach.
Here is the right approach you should use if you, for example, use a provider on something that's
part of a list or a regret because of the issue I described in the last lecture where widgets are recycled
by Flattr.
But the data that's attached to the widget changes when using change notifier provider value.
You actually make sure that the provider works even if data changes for the widget.
If you had a builder function that would not work correctly here, it will work correctly because now
the provider is tied to its data and is attached and detached to and from the widget instead of changing
data being attached to the same provider.
So distort value constructor Syntex is the approach you should use in this scenario here and in all
scenarios where you have the provider package and you're providing your data on a single list or grid
items where Flautre then actually will recycle the widgets you're attaching your provider to with this
thought value constructor approach that will work without issues with the builder function we use before
that would cost bux.
As soon as you have more items that do actually go beyond the screen boundaries because of the way widgets
are recycled and your data changes and your provider wouldn't keep up with that, the value constructor
will keep up with that.
That's just a little side note.
No.
One other important note about change notifier provider, although with the thought value approach here
in Meinhardt where I'm also using this.
Here, there, it's actually the better approach to not use this way of providing this products value,
but instead here you should use that old approach of having the create or the builder method where you
then get your context and create products like this.
Why?
Because whenever you instantiate a class, so whenever you create a new object based on a class, as
we're doing it here, if you do that to provide that object to to change notifier provider, you should
use the create method for efficiency into a white box.
Whenever you reuse an existing object like we're doing it, integrate where we cycle through a list
of products which already all exist.
It's recommended that you use that value approach.
So if the value constructor.
Now, it would also work.
If we would use the dot value constructor here in MAINARD, it just might be a little bit less efficient
and maybe lead to unnecessary referendums or in some apps it might be buggy.
Therefore, when you create a new instance of object and you want to provide is used to create or the
builder method as I'm doing it here in Mainard.
Now, if you reuse an existing object like we're doing it in the product script, you should use the
dot value provider with the value you're providing as we're doing it here now over the next lecture's
you actually see that I in the Mainard filed still use the dot value provider.
So the one I told you is not the best possible way of doing it because it won't hurt.
Does application just because it's not the best possible way does not mean that it doesn't work, that
it crashes your app or that it's super inefficient.
I just want to tell you this best practice which emerged since I recorded the course so that you are
aware of it, you could also use the other approach, which I'm going to use over the next lectures.
But using create if you are creating a new instance is recommended.
There's another important thing if we navigate to a totally different screen, and with that, I don't
mean the detailed screen which is pushed on top of the screen, but if we had tabs or if we used push
replacement and we had a screen that replaces the old screen, then it's important that we clean up
our provided data Flattr automatically for you, cleans up all the widgets it built so that they don't
take up space and memory anymore.
But your provided data would still end up in memory and that would be bad because the more often you
then visit and leave that page, the more data is stored in memory.
And that leads to memory leaks where your memory will at some point overflow.
So it's important that you dispose of the data you are storing here and here.
The good thing is change notify provider no matter if you use it with the value constructor or not,
automatically cleans up that data for you when it's not required anymore.
So you don't have to worry about that.
It's just important to be aware of that because maybe you didn't think about that.
And actually that would be pretty normal at this point that you don't think about this.
But if you ever come to that point, you think, well, what's happening to my old data, no worries.
Changed Notifier provider cleans it up for you.